alibis	alibi -s
alkalis	alkali -s
asbestos	asbestos
bikinis	bikini -s
chis	chi -s
martinis	martini -s
skis	ski -s
skies	sky -s
taxis	taxi -s
tipis	tipi -s
done	do -en
did	do -ed
hers	hers
its	its
ours	ours
yours	yours
left	leave -ed
began	begin -ed
begun	begin -en
brought	bring -ed
corpora	corpus -s
flew	fly -ed
flown	fly -en
lay	lie -ed
lain	lie -en
laid	lay -ed
Peking	Peking
abed	abed
agreed	agree -ed
am	be +1s
andruses	andrus -s
anything	anything
apaches	apache -s
are	be +pl
arisen	arise -en
arose	arise -ed
as	as
ate	eat -ed
bade	bid -ed
beaten	beat -en
been	be -en
begot	beget -ed
begotten	beget -en
bestselling	bestselling
bidden	bid -en
bit	bite -ed
bitten	bite -en
bled	bleed -ed
bloodshed	bloodshed
boeing	boeing
bore	bear -ed
born	bear -en
bred	breed -ed
britches	britches
broke	break -ed
broken	break -en
bugeyed	bugeye -ed
calories	calorie -s
canvases	canvas -s
catastrophes	catastrophe -s
ceiling	ceiling
channing	channing
children	child -s
chose	choose -ed
chosen	choose -en
clothes	clothes
cockeyed	cockeye -ed
coed	coed
commies	commie -s
made	make -ed
met	meet -ed
ran	run -ed
sat	sit -ed
slid	slide -ed
sold	sell -ed
sought	seek -ed
fought	fight -ed
wrought	wreak -ed
caught	catch -ed
cookies	cookie -s
cunning	cunning
daises	dais -s
darkling	darkling
darling	darling
daybed	daybed
deathbed	deathbed
decreed	decree -ed
dove	dive -ed
found	find -ed
gone	go -en
went	go -ed
grew	grow -ed
grown	grow -ed
shown	show -en
shew	show -ed
lit	light -ed
drank	drink -ed
dreamt	dream -ed
driven	drive -en
drunk	drink -en
during	during
dyed	dye -ed
eaten	eat -en
emphases	emphasis -s
evening	evening
everything	everything
fallen	fall -en
featherbed	featherbed
fed	feed -ed
fell	fall -ed
fled	flee -ed
fledgling	fledgling
foci	focus -s
forbad	forbid -ed
forbade	forbid -ed
forbidden	forbid -en
foresaw	foresee -ed
foreseen	foresee -en
forgot	forget -ed
forgotten	forget -en
forsaken	forsake -en
forsook	forsake -ed
forswore	forswear -ed
forsworn	forswear -en
foundling	foundling
fracases	fracas -s
froze	freeze -ed
frozen	freeze -en
gangling	gangling
gases	gas -s
gave	give -ed
given	give -en
got	get -ed
gotten	get -en
grandchildren	grandchild -s
greatgrandchildren	greatgrandchild -s
guaranteed	guarantee -ed
had	have -ed
has	have -s
hawkinses	hawkins -s
heard	hear -ed
heinzes	heinz -s
held	hold -ed
hid	hide -ed
hidden	hide -en
hotbed	hotbed
housebroke	housebreak -ed
housebroken	housebreak -en
hughes	hughes
hypotheses	hypothesis -s
infrared	infrared
inkling	inkling
interspecies	interspecies
interwove	interweave -ed
interwoven	interweave -en
is	be -s
joneses	jones -s
kept	keep -ed
kipling	kipling
laden	load -en
lalauries	lalaurie -s
led	lead -ed
lept	leap -ed
lost	loose -ed
lying	lie G
magpies	magpie -s
massacred	massacre -ed
matisses	matisse -s
melies	melies
menarches	menarche -s
misled	mislead -ed
missaid	missay -ed
misspoke	misspeak -ed
misspoken	misspeak -en
mistaken	mistake -en
mistook	mistake -ed
took	take -ed
taken	take -en
threw	throw -ed
thrown	throw -en
stood	stand -ed
miswritten	miswrite -en
miswrote	miswrite -ed
mohammed	mohammed
molasses	molasses
monies	money -s
morning	morning
moses	moses
movies	movie -s
naked	naked
neuroses	neurosis -s
newlywed	newlywed
nibelungenlied	nibelungenlied
nothing	nothing
notwithstanding	notwithstanding
oases	oasis -s
obsequies	obsequies
oersted	oersted
overridden	override -en
overrode	override -ed
overtaken	overtake -en
overtook	overtake -ed
parentheses	parenthesis -s
patisseries	patisserie -s
pedigreed	pedigree -ed
peed	pee -ed
piddling	piddling
pies	pie -s
pils	pils
pixies	pixie -s
plainclothes	plainclothes
prognoses	prognosis -s
proven	prove -en
rabies	rabies
recherches	recherche -s
herring	herring
rewritten	rewrite -en
rewrote	rewrite -ed
ridden	ride -en
riefling	riefling
risen	rise -en
roadbed	roadbed
rode	ride -ed
rookies	rookie -s
rose	rise -ed
said	say -ed
sank	sink -ed
sapling	sapling
saw	see -ed
schelling	schelling
schilling	schilling
seedbed	seedbed
seen	see -en
sepulchred	sepulchre -ed
series	series
shaken	shake -en
shaven	shave -en
shook	shake -ed
shorn	shear -en
shrank	shrink -ed
shrunk	shrink -en
sibling	sibling
siegfried	siegfried
singed	singe -ed
singing	sing G
slept	sleep -ed
snelling	snelling
something	something
spake	speak -ed
sparling	sparling
spat	spit -ed
species	species
sped	speed -ed
spoke	speak -ed
spoken	speak -en
stank	stink -ed
sterling	sterling
stirling	stirling
stole	steal -ed
told	tell -ed
retold	retell -ed
stolen	steal -en
stricken	strike -en
striven	strive -en
strove	strive -ed
struck	strike -ed
stunk	stink -en
stuck	stick -ed
subspecies	subspecies
sunk	sink -en
swollen	swell -en
swore	swear -ed
sworn	swear -en
taught	teach -ed
these	this +pl
theses	thesis -s
thing	thing
those	that +pl
thought	think -ed
trellises	trellis -s
trod	tread -ed
trodden	tread -en
unbidden	unbid -en
unbroken	unbreak -en
underclothes	underclothes
underlies	underlie -s
underling	underling
undertaken	undertake -en
undertook	undertake -ed
unforeseen	unforesee -en
unfroze	unfreeze -ed
unfrozen	unfreeze -en
unshaven	unshave -en
unshed	unshed
unspoken	unspeak -en
unwed	unwed
unwilling	unwilling
was	be -ed
watershed	watershed
watling	watling
wept	weep -ed
were	be -ed
wicked	wicked
won	win -ed
woodshed	woodshed
wore	wear -ed
worn	wear -en
worsted	worsted
wove	weave -ed
woven	weave -en
written	write -en
wrote	write -ed
yalies	yalie -s
zombies	zombie -s
